So let's go back and talk a little
bit about lighting very briefly,
the lighting is already set up
in our scene the way we want it.
But I just wanted to touch
on this really quick.
Lights are a little bit more intuitive
than materials, just like in the real
world lights in Unity contribute
to how surfaces are rendered.
So the shaders on each
material are able to access
lighting data and
make parts of a surface brighter or
darker depending on the angle
of the light to that pixel.
And it also takes into account
the parameters of each light source.
So each light can have a shape,
It has a position,
there's the intensity of the light,
the color and so forth.
So if we just switch over to unity,
there's nothing we actually need to do
here, but if we look at this directional
light and look at it in the scene view,
You can see that I've
got this light that's
just Just kind of pointing in a direction.
In this case, a directional light is
just kind of a uniform light that
gets applied to the same, It gets applied
the same way to every part of the scene.
So directional lights are really good for
things like the sun.
Light sources that are very large and
very far away can
be represented as a more
simplistic directional light
rather than using something
like say a spotlight or
another type of light that has
kind of more directionality to it.
There's also point lights,
which are just a sphere of light
that emit in all directions.
So you can have some fun kind of
playing around with the lighting here.
One thing I will do I'll just
put the scene view side by side
with the game view here, and
I'll use the rotate tool.
You can rotate the light and
you can see how that changes
the lighting in the scene.
So again, this is a little bit
more intuitive the materials and
you can actually see
the shadows of the player and
the opponent kind of moving
across the game board there.
So I'll hit command Z to undo that.
I'll stack my game view and
scene view again.
And let's get back to the slides.
So there's something else that we
need to do with our lighting here.
We want to create some
reflections on the material and
right now that isn't really present, we
are kind of just reflecting the sky box,
but there's more localized reflections,
that we could benefit from.
So in computer graphics,
reflections are actually pretty costly,
because you have to kind
of render the scene twice.
And then apply it to the thing
that you want to be reflected.
And then it gets even more complicated
if you want say a reflection within
a reflection, and so forth.
That's why offline rendering and
ray tracing gets these things looking so
nice, whereas in real time
environments like games,
we have to rely on pre computed data.
We can't calculate these reflections
every frame I mean we can
hardware is getting faster and faster but
generally reflections are sampled
beforehand and they are baked.
So we wanna use what's called
a reflection probe, and
that captures a spherical view of its
surroundings, and then any shaders
in its area of influence can use the image
data to generate convincing reflections.
So this is pretty cool.
I got a little bit of scene set up here.
So we're going to add a reflection probe.
And we're going to position
it just a little bit
above the game board at a y height of 1.5.
And we're going to set a few
other settings there mostly for
performance reasons and quality reasons.
So let's get back to Unity and
in the hierarchy here we're going to
create a light called a reflection probe.
It's not really a light but
it's under the light menu.
And we can leave the default name for
that, we can just leave
it as reflection probe,
and we're going to set that to
a position of 0, 1.5 and 0.
And then got the preview here.
I don't need that just yet, but for
the settings we want box projection,
excuse me.
We want box projection to be true.
And then we want to set
the resolution of a reflection
a little bit higher,
we'll set that to 512.
And then for the shadow distance because
this is a baked reflection probe,
it's not being rendered
in real time every frame.
We can set the shadow
distance to be really far.
I'll just set it to a value of 1000.
And now,
I'll switch over to the game view so
we can kind of see how
this changes if at all.
Now we'll hit the bake button
on the reflection probe.
So that should take just a second and
it didn't really change a whole lot and
the immediate view but
if I go ahead and start the game,
and allow these more
metallic objects to drop in.
You'll see that they do look
a little bit different,
they're using the influence
of the reflection probe.
I do wonder if I actually turn that on and
off, if it will change much.
Not really.
But you can see some of the reflections
being applied to there,
so that's pretty cool.
So reflection probes they allow you
to kind of capture a lot more of the,
I guess, realistic qualities that so
many games are trying to chase.
You know what, there is one thing I forgot
I expected that to make a little bit of
a bigger impact.
We need to include some of these
objects in the reflection.
So in order to do that,
we need to tell the reflection probe
what objects aren't going to move, and
what objects are not dynamic, so that
it can include them in the reflections.
So I didn't do that.
There is the game board here.
And then there's the ground here.
So I just held down Shift
to select both of those.
And we need to set those
game objects to be static.
So in the inspector in the upper right,
there's this static checkbox here.
We're just going to check that.
And now if we go back to
our reflection probe,
kind of open the game view here and
hit bake to bake those
static objects,
that should make a bigger difference.
Play, and there we go.
Now we can see the game board and
the ground actually reflected
in that sphere there.
So if I turn that on and off, that's the
bigger difference that I was looking for.
You can see how with it on, you can see
the reflection of the world around it,
looks a little bit more convincing.
And again,
that's not perfectly accurate, but
it's enough to kind of sell the visual
in a very computationally friendly way.